K8s: RoF preview content (#2165)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/kubernetes/re-clusters/redis-on-flash.md

---
Title: Use Redis on Flash on Kubernetes
linkTitle: Redis on Flash
description: Deploy and configure a Redis cluster or database on Kubernetes that supports Redis on Flash.
weight: 16
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [
    /kubernetes/re-clusters/redis-on-flash.md,
    /kubernetes/re-clusters/redis-on-flash/,
]  
---

## Prerequisites

> Redis Enterprise Software for Kubernetes supports using NVMe (nonvolatile memory express) SSDs (solid state drives) for flash storage with the Redis on Flash feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redis Enterprise Software for Kubernetes supports Redis on Flash, which extends memory capacity on SSDs or flash (NVMe).
```

Author: > 

I'll have to double check, but my understanding is that flash memory needs to be SSDs and our operator requires those SSDs be of the NVMe variety.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that we should state in the prerequisites section that NVMe is a strong requirement or the only supported flash drive type.
The only requirements are:
1. SSDs must be locally attached to the worker nodes (not network attached, network attached storage is not supported for RoF case).
2. SSDs must be formatted and mounted on the worker nodes.
3. Provisioned as local persistent volumes.
4. Assigned a unique `StorageClass`.

Maybe the right thing to do is to state that using high-performing NVMe is our recommendation to achieve best performance.

> Before creating your Redis clusters or databases, these SSDs must be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating your Redis clusters or databases, your SSD or NVMe must be:
```

Author: > 

My understanding is the NVMe is a type of SSD.

- [locally attached to worker nodes in your Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#local)

> - [formatted and mounted]() on the worker nodes that will run Redis Enterprise pods

Reviewer: Missing link here?

> - [formatted and mounted]() on the worker nodes that will run Redis Enterprise pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [formatted and mounted]() on the nodes that will run Redis Enterprise pods
```

Author: I think it's important to specify the type of nodes here, but I'll check with R&D to make sure. 
@heinrich-redislabs @laurentdroin @bascar do you know if we need to specify these are mounted on worker nodes? Or can we just say nodes?

Reviewer 2: I think in that case it's enough to say "nodes". Master nodes will not run Redis Enterprise pods.
In fact, not all worker nodes need to have locally attached SSDs, only a subset that will run RE pods.
So just saying "nodes" is correct.

- [provisioned as local persistent volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#local)
  - You can use a [local volume provisioner](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/sig-storage-local-static-provisioner/blob/master/README.md) to do this [dynamically](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#dynamic)

> - a [StorageClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/#local) resource specifying a unique name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a [StorageClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/#local) resource with a unique name
```

{{< note >}}

> Redis on Flash support is currently in preview. To enable this feature, create a boolean environment variable with the name `ENABLE_ALPHA_FEATURES` to `True` in either the `redis-enterprise-operator` pod spec or the `operator-environment-config` ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redis on Flash support with Kubernetes is currently in preview. To enable this feature, set an environment variable with the name `ENABLE_ALPHA_FEATURES` to `True` in either the `redis-enterprise-operator` pod spec or the `operator-environment-config` ConfigMap.
```

{{< /note >}}

> ## Create Redis Enterprise cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Redis Enterprise cluster
```

> To deploy a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) with flash storage, you'll need to specify the following in the `redisOnFlashSpec` section of your [REC custom resource]:

Reviewer: Missing link to "REC custom resource"

- enable Redis on Flash (`enabled: true`)
- flash storage driver (`flashStorageEngine`)
  - The only currently supported value is `rocksdb`
- storage class name (`storageClassName`)
- minimal flash disk size (`flashDiskSize`)

Here is an example of an REC custom resource with these attributes:

```YAML
apiVersion: app.redislabs.com/v1
kind: RedisEnterpriseCluster
metadata:
  name: "rec"
spec:
  
  nodes: 3
  redisOnFlashSpec:
    enabled: true
    flashStorageEngine: rocksdb
    storageClassName: local-scsi
    flashDiskSize: 100G
```

> ### Create Redis Enterprise database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a Redis Enterprise database
```

> By default, any new database will use RAM only. To create a Redis Enterprise database (REDB) that can use flash storage, specify the following in the `redisEnterpriseCluster` section of the REDB custom resource definition:

Reviewer: Is REDB important here?

Author: REDB it they name of the custom resource. Using that acronym differentiates it from a database created without the operator.

- `isRof: true` enables Redis on Flash
- `rofRamSize` defines the RAM capacity for the database

Below is an example REDB custom resource:

```YAML
apiVersion: app.redislabs.com/v1alpha1
kind: RedisEnterpriseDatabase
metadata:
  name: rof-redb
spec:
  redisEnterpriseCluster:
    name: rec
  isRof: true
  memorySize: 2GB
  rofRamSize: 0.5GB
```

{{< note >}}

> This example defines both `memorySize` and `rofRamSize`. When using Redis on Flash, `memorySize` refers to the combined memory size (RAM + flash), while `rofRamSize` specifies only the RAM capacity for the database. `rofRamSize` must be at least 10% of `memorySize`.

Reviewer: This seems counterintuitive, so just want to double check: rofSize refers to the amount of RAM and not the amount of flash?

Author: That's my understanding but I will check with @heinrich-redislabs to clarify.

Reviewer 2: Indeed it sounds counter intuitive, let me clarify:
memorySize always refers to the combined memory allocated for the database.
In case on non-RoF database, it's simply the RAM size. In case of RoF database, it's combined RAM+Flash size.
rofRamSize - refers to the RAM portion of an RoF database.

---
Title: Use Redis on Flash on Kubernetes
linkTitle: Redis on Flash
description: Deploy a cluster with Redis on Flash on Kubernetes.
weight: 16
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [
    /kubernetes/re-clusters/redis-on-flash.md,
    /kubernetes/re-clusters/redis-on-flash/,
]  
---

## Prerequisites

> Redis Enterprise Software for Kubernetes supports using Redis on Flash, which extends your node memory to use both RAM and flash storage. SSDs (solid state drives) can store infrequently used (warm) values while your keys and frequently used (hot) values are still stored in RAM. This improves performance or lower costs for large datasets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Redis Enterprise Software for Kubernetes supports using Redis on Flash, which extends your node memory to use both RAM and flash storage. SSDs (solid state drives) can store infrequently used (warm) values while your keys and frequently used (hot) values are still stored in RAM. This improves performance and lowers costs for large datasets.
```

{{<note>}}
NVMe (non-volatile memory express) SSDs are strongly recommended to achieve the best performance.
{{</note>}}

Before creating your Redis clusters or databases, these SSDs must be:

- [locally attached to worker nodes in your Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#local)
- formatted and mounted on the nodes that will run Redis Enterprise pods
- dedicated to RoF and not shared with other parts of the database, (e.g. durability, binaries)
- [provisioned as local persistent volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#local)
  - You can use a [local volume provisioner](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/sig-storage-local-static-provisioner/blob/master/README.md) to do this [dynamically](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#dynamic)
- a [StorageClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/#local) resource with a unique name

> For more information on node storage, see [Node persistent and ephemeral storage]({{<relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/persistent-ephemeral-storage.md">}})

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information on node storage, see [Node persistent and ephemeral storage]({{<relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/persistent-ephemeral-storage.md">}}).
```

## Enable Redis on Flash feature

> Redis on Flash support with Kubernetes is currently in preview. To enable this feature, set an environment variable with the name `ENABLE_ALPHA_FEATURES` to `True` in either the `redis-enterprise-operator` pod spec or the `operator-environment-config` ConfigMap.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Redis on Flash support with Kubernetes is in preview. To enable this feature, set an environment variable with the name `ENABLE_ALPHA_FEATURES` to `True` in either the `redis-enterprise-operator` pod spec or the `operator-environment-config` ConfigMap.
```

## Create a Redis Enterprise cluster

To deploy a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) with flash storage, you'll need to specify the following in the `redisOnFlashSpec` section of your [REC custom resource]({{<relref "/kubernetes/reference/cluster-options.md">}}):

- enable Redis on Flash (`enabled: true`)
- flash storage driver (`flashStorageEngine`)

>   - The only currently supported value is `rocksdb`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - The only supported value is `rocksdb`
```
